Objective:- Assignments will help trainees to understand the basics of unix command and how to explore and use it.

DO NOT copy paste commands from internet, you can take help of the Unix in-built command manual.

Be Honest to yourself!

Important command and option to learn unix commands:-
man Command
Example:-
man ls

--help Option
Example:-
ls --help

NOTE:- Always use "man" command before using any unix commands and read about it and its options and how to use it.

Assignments:-

1.List the contents of a directory and their attributes
ls

2.Long list the content with file, directory ownership, permissions,sizes, etc…
ls -l

3.Display the size of the file in human readable format
ls -lh

4.Show all files and folders including hidden one
ls -al

5.list directories recursively
ls -R

6.Sort the files by size with largest at the top
ls -IS

7.Sort the files by last time modified displaying the newest first.
ls -t

8.Diplay the location of a program/command, where it is installed.
whereis

9.Which command is used to switch directory from one to another
cd

10.List all the environment variables set for the current shell environment
printenv

11.Did you notice something in the output of "env" command?


12.Which command is used to print the text or any variables value in the Console/Terminal?
echo

13.Print the value of the env variable "PATH" on the console
echo $varname

14.Is linux a case-sensitive operating system?
yes , linux is case sensitive operating system

15.Is, "Ls" same as "ls"?
No, Ls is not command ls is correct

16.Display your currently logged in user
 who
 
17.how do you change the currrently logged in user to another user?
sudo useradd username
sudo passwd

18.Which command is used to leave a shell environment that you are currently logged in to?
exit command

19.How do you reboot the system?
sudo reboot

20.How do you shutdown the system?
sudo shutdown

21.Display all the major running processes in the system
ps command

22.Understand the output of command used in above question of displaying processes, explain the meaning of each column and what data it displays?

23.Display the name of the system kernel
uname command it print linux

24.display the kernel release number
uname -r it shows  5.13.0 -39-generic

25.Display the name of the operating system that the kernel is running on
uname -o it shows GNU/linux

26.Display all info that uname command can show.
27.display the os name

28.Display the name of directory that you are currently pointing to
pwd

29.change the current directory to another directory that you have in your system.
using cd command

30.Go up one directory
cd onkar

31.Return to last directory
cd ..

32.change the current directory to home(logged in user's) directory
cd /home

33.How to check all the command used from the prompt (Command History)
using history command

34.In which file the history of commands are stored in?
in bash

35.How many lines of history does the system keep and from where you can change it?
1000 lines

36.How can you modify bash's history behaviour
using source ~/.bashrc command

37.Display all the commands entered so far, now, try to run a particular command from the history list without typing that command.
use up and down key and press enter
NOTE:- TAB key is your friend when it comes to command completion and having long file and directory names autocompleted at the bash prompt for you. JUST BE LAZY AND USE TAB KEY FOR AUTO COMPLETION ;-)

38.What are the different types of shell and where are they used and how do we use them?
Bourne shell(sh)
Bourbe Again Shell(bash)
The Restricted Shell(rbash)
Dash Shell(dash)

39.What is the difference between login shell and non-login shell?
Login Shell = Login shell is created after a successful login of user. When login shell start  it runs set of predefined script to configure shell envoirnment.
Non-login Shell= It is the shell which is started by login shell.

40.How do we start login shell and non-login shell?


41.What happens when you start a login shell (which files are read and used and Why)?


42.What are Shell Configuration Files, why do we need it?
Shell configuration files are executed automatically when you log in and. out of a shell

44.Explain the Order of file usage from the system/user's home directory when user logs in to the System.


45.What are Shell Variables, list major shell variables and what do they represent?
Shell (local) variables - variables that affect only the current shell.

46.How we see all our env variables?
printenv

47.How we see all env variables in alphabical order?
env | sort

48.What Format does the env var and its values are stored?


49.How do you create your own varible?
choose lowercase name for the variable and give it value using equal(=) sign.

50.How do you start a new bash shell?
gnome-terminal &

51.Difference between Local/Shell variables to Global Variable
local variables are declared inside the function where global variables declared outside of the function.
Making a variable accessible from other the shell in the system.


52.Show the real life use case of exporting a variable
export makes the variable available to sub-process

53.Convert the above script file into a command, The file should run with "myappp" instead of "myapp.sh"
"myapp.sh"

54.What is Globbing? Explain in depth with examples?
The Bash shell feature that is used for matching or expanding specific types of patterns is called globbing. 
Globbing is mainly used to match filenames or searching for content in a file. Globbing uses wildcard characters to create the pattern

55.List all entries with extension ".sh"
ls *.sh

56.List all entries with numbers in it.
ls +([0-9])

57.List all entries that starts with a character and ends with a number


58.List all entries that name length more than 5 characters
ls -A -d ?????*

59.What is Quoting? and Why do we need it?
Quoting is an important technique used to include information from outside sources in academic writing. 
When using quotations, it is important that you also cite the original reference that you have taken the quotation from,
 as your citations provide your reader with a map of the research that you have done
Write few(minimum 3) unique examples that shows, how a particular problem is solved using Quoting.

60.How do you find a particular files/directories based on a particular search criteria?
HINT:- look for commands -> locate, find and whereis
find command

61.Write major difference between locate, find and whereis?
Big difference is that find searches real files recursively down a given directory, while locate searches a database without requiring specific directory.
 Thus, if you have saved a file before updating database, find will find it , but locate won't
 
62.How Globbing is different from locate, find and whereis?
Big difference is that find searches real files recursively down a given directory, while locate searches a database without requiring specific directory. 
Thus, if you have saved a file before updating database, find will find it , but locate won't

63.Explain the Linux File System.
A Linux file system is a structured collection of files on a disk drive or a partition. A partition is a segment of memory and contains some specific data. In our machine, there can be various partitions of the memory. Generally, every partition contains a file system.
The general-purpose computer system needs to store data systematically so that we can easily access the files in less time. It stores the data on hard disks (HDD) or some equivalent storage type. There may be below reasons for maintaining the file system:

64.Explain absolute and Relative Paths
Absolute path refers to the same location in a file system relative to the root directory, 
whereas a relative path points to a specific location in a file system relative to the current directory you are working on.

65.What are the different ways of creating a File in linux System? Write an example of each and the difference between them.
1. touch command eg. touch filename
2. cat command .eg. cat >filename
3. vi  command  eg. vi filename 
4. nano command eg. nano filename

66.In how many ways we can delete the files from linux system? write an example of each and teh difference between them.
1.rm command eg. rm filename
2.unlink  eg. unlink filename

67.Archiving files using linux command, write a command to archive set of files from linux commands.
 Creating an uncompressed tar Archive using option -cvf : This command creates a tar file called file.tar which is the Archive of all .c files in current directory. 
 tar cvf file.tar *.c

68.Extract the archived files from the above step.
 tar xvf file.tar